# NODE.

1- What is node.js?

- Node.js® is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome’s V8 JavaScript engine.
  Node.js is an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library.

2- In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?

- The V8 engine is the open-source JavaScript engine that runs in Google Chrome and other Chromium-based web browsers.

3- What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?

- This means that Node.js is a program we can use to execute JavaScript on our computers.

4- What is npm?

- a package manager that comes bundled with Node.

5- What version of node are you running on your machine?

- v14.17.4

6- What version of npm are you running on your machine?

- 6.14.14

7- What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?

- npm install -g jshint

8- What is node used for?

- Node. js is primarily used for non-blocking, event-driven servers, due to its single-threaded nature. It's used for traditional web sites and back-end API services, but was designed with real-time, push-based architectures in mind.

## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

a-What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?

b-Greater efficiency

c-Engaged collaboration

d-Learning from fellow students

e-Social skills

f-Job interview readiness

g-Work environment readiness

9- In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?

- In my opinion I see if we learning from fellow students we will development quickly , because may sharing our experians together that allow us to find ourselves.

10 -How does pair programming work?

- Pair programming is an agile software development technique in which two programmers work together at one workstation. One, the driver, writes code while the other, the observer or navigator, reviews each line of code as it is typed in. The two programmers switch roles frequently.