# SQL vs NoSQL Database Differences Explained 

| SQL|             NoSQL            |
| -----------|------------------------------|
| databases are primarily called as Relational Databases (RDBMS    |  NoSQL database are primarily called as non-relational or distributed database.     |
| databases are table based databases     | atabases are document based, key-value pairs, graph databases or wide-column stores |
|databases have predefined schema  |databases have dynamic schema for unstructured data |
|  databases are vertically scalable |  NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable|


## What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?
**SQL databases are not best fit for hierarchical data storage**
**SQL databases are good fit for the complex query intensive environment**

## Give a real world example.
**Replication: By replicating MySQL database across multiple nodes the work load can be reduced heavily increasing the scalability and availability of business application**

## What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?
**databases are not good fit for complex queries. On a high-level, NoSQL don’t have standard interfaces to perform complex queries, and the queries themselves in NoSQL are not as powerful as SQL query language.**

## Give a real world example.
**Redis, Dynamo, Riak are some NoSQL examples of key-value store DataBases. They are all based on Amazon’s Dynamo paper.**

## Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?
**SQL databases.**

## Which type of database is best for scalability?
**SQL databases**

## What does SQL stand for?
**SQL stands for Structured Query Language. SQL is used to communicate with a database. According to ANSI (American National Standards Institute), it is the standard language for relational database management systems.**

## What is a realational database?
**A relational database is a type of database that stores and provides access to data points that are related to one another. … The columns of the table hold attributes of the data, and each record usually has a value for each attribute.**

## What type of structure does a relational database work with?
**A traditional and widely-used data structure is called “B-tree.” B-tree structures.**

## What is a ‘schema’?
**A schema is a model for describing the structure of information. It’s a term borrowed from the database world to describe the structure of data in relational tables. … A schema might also be viewed as an agreement on a common vocabulary for a particular application that involves exchanging documents.**

## What is a NoSQL database?
**NoSQL is an approach to database management that can accommodate a wide variety of data models, including key-value, document, columnar and graph formats. A NoSQL database generally means that it is non-relational, distributed, flexible and scalable.**

## how nosql database works?
**NoSQL databases store data in documents rather than relational tables. Accordingly, we classify them as “not only SQL” and subdivide them by a variety of flexible data models.**


## Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? 
**MongoDB is faster than MySQL due to its ability to handle large amounts of unstructured data when it comes to speed. It uses slave replication, master replication to process vast amounts of unstructured data and offers the freedom to use multiple data types that are better than the rigidity of MySQL.**


## What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database? 

- NoSQL is not compatible (at all) with SQL.
- This means that you will need a manual query language, making things slower and more complex.
- NoSQL are very new compared to Relational Databases, which means that are far less stable and may have a lot less functionalities.


