# REST

1-Who is Roy Fielding?

- Roy Fielding, he talks a lot about what those things point to in that research I was talking about. The whole world wide web is built on an architectural style called “REST”. REST provides a definition of a “resource”, which is what those things point to.

2-Why don’t the techniques that we use today work well when we need to be able to talk to all of the machines in the world?

- Because they weren't designed to be used like that. When Fielding and his colleagues started building the web, being able to talk to any machine anywhere in the world was a primary concern. But most of the techniques developers later used to get computers to talk to each other didn't have those requirements. You just needed to talk to a small group of machines.

3-What is the HTTP protocol that Fielding and his friends created?

- HTTP—this protocol Fielding and his friends created—is all about applying verbs to nouns. For instance, when you go to a web page, the browser does an HTTP GET on the URL you typed in and back comes a web page. 

4-What does a GET do?

- GETs using the HTTP protocol on them until all the resources are obtained and the web page is displayed. But the important thing here is that very different kinds of nouns can be treated the same. Whether the noun is an image, text, video, an mp3, a slideshow, whatever. I can GET all of those things the same way given a URL.

5-What does a POST do?

- it would use an HTTP verb of POST. If a system wants to replace something in another system.

6-What does PUT do?

- it uses an HTTP verb of PUT, or, to do a partial update, it'll hopefully use PATCH. The only thing left to figure out is what the data models should look like.

7-What does PATCH do?

- In computing, the PATCH method is a request method supported by the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) protocol for making partial changes to an existing resource. The PATCH method provides an entity containing a list of changes to be applied to the resource requested using the HTTP Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)


## API Keys

1-Did you get your API key?

- yes,I Did

2-Did you get your API key?

- yes,I Did

3- Did you get your API key?

- Yes

4- Did you get your API key?

-yes