# Putting it all together

## How would you break a mock into a component heirarchy?

- The first thing you’ll want to do is to draw boxes around every component (and subcomponent) in the mock and give them all names. If you’re working with a designer, they may have already done this, so go talk to them! Their Photoshop layer names may end up being the names of your React components!

## What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

- single responsibility principle, that is, a component should ideally only do one thing. If it ends up growing, it should be decomposed into smaller subcomponents.

## What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

- Static applications and websites render in the user's browser without the need for server side processing, this means that all the rendering of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript is done on the client side, rather then relying on server side technologies

## Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

- adding interactivity requires a lot of thinking and not a lot of typing. We’ll see why.

## What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

1- Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state.

2- Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.

3-Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.

## How can you identify where state needs to live?

- our state lives in FilterableProductTable. First, add an instance property this.state = {filterText: '', inStockOnly: false} to FilterableProductTable’s constructor to reflect the initial state of your application. Then, pass filterText and inStockOnly to ProductTable and SearchBar as a prop. Finally, use these props to filter the rows in ProductTable and set the values of the form fields in SearchBar.
