# Read: 03 - Maps, primitives, File I/O

## primitives

- the most basic data types available within the Java language
- it is faster to access
- Wrapper classes provide a way to use primitive data types
- Default values of the primitive types are 0 for numeric types, false for the boolean type

## Objects

- The reference types are objects, they live on the heap and are relatively slow to access. They have a certain overhead concerning their primitive counterparts.


## Exceptions:

- An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program, that disrupts the normal flow of the program's instructions.'
- term exception is shorthand for the phrase "exceptional event."
- _throwing an exception:_ It's the event when the error occur during the runtime, then the method which is executing will create an object called exception and send it to the runtime system with the state of the object before an error has occurs.

### Exceptions types:

1. _checked exception_: These are exceptional conditions that a well-written application should anticipate and recover from.
2. _the error_: These are exceptional conditions that are external to the application, and that the application usually cannot anticipate or recover from.
3. _the runtime exception_: These are exceptional conditions that are internal to the application, and that the application usually cannot anticipate or recover from.

### Catching and Handling Exceptions:

**The try Block**:

- The first step in constructing an exception handler is to enclose the code that might throw an exception within a try block.
- You associate exception handlers with a try block by providing one or more catch blocks directly after the try block. No code can be between the end of the try block and the beginning of the first catch block.

```

try {

} catch (ExceptionType name) {

} catch (ExceptionType name) {

}

```

## Catching More Than One Type of Exception with One Exception Handler

- In the catch clause, specify the types of exceptions that block can handle, and separate each exception type with a vertical bar (|):

```

catch (IOException|SQLException ex) {
    logger.log(ex);
    throw ex;
}

```

## Scanning:

- Objects of type Scanner are useful for breaking down formatted input into tokens and translating individual tokens according to their data type.
- The Scanner class is used to get user input, and it is found in the java.util package.

### To use scanner

1- create an object of the class
2- use any of the available methods found in the Scanner class documentation.