# Read: 06 - Inheritance and Interfaces

## Inheritance

- explains how classes inherit state and behavior from their superclasses, and explains how to derive one class from another using the simple syntax provided by the Java programming language

- Object-oriented programming allows classes to inherit commonly used state and behavior from other classes.

- In the Java programming language, each class is allowed to have one direct superclass, and each superclass has the potential for an unlimited number of subclasses.

## What You Can Do in a Subclass

- A subclass inherits all of the public and protected members of its parent, no matter what package the subclass is in. If the subclass is in the same package as its parent, it also inherits the package-private members of the parent. You can use the inherited members as is, replace them, hide them, or supplement them with new members:

  - The inherited fields can be used directly, just like any other fields.

  - You can declare new fields in the subclass that are not in the superclass.

  - The inherited methods can be used directly as they are.

  - You can write a new static method in the subclass that has the same signature as the one in the superclass, thus hiding it.

  - You can declare new methods in the subclass that are not in the superclass.

  - You can write a subclass constructor that invokes the constructor of the superclass, either implicitly or by using the keyword super.

## Interfaces

- Implementing an interface allows a class to become more formal about the behavior it promises to provide.

- Interfaces form a contract between the class and the outside world, and this contract is enforced at build time by the compiler.

- If your class claims to implement an interface, all methods defined by that interface must appear in its source code before the class will successfully compile.

- In the Java programming language, an interface is a reference type, similar to a class, that can contain only constants, method signatures, default methods, static methods, and nested types.

- An interface can extend other interfaces, just as a class subclass or extend another class. However, whereas a class can extend only one other class, an interface can extend any number of interfaces.

- If you define a reference variable whose type is an interface, any object you assign to it must be an instance of a class that implements the interface.

    ```java
    interface Bicycle {

        //  wheel revolutions per minute
        void changeCadence(int newValue);

        void changeGear(int newValue);

        void speedUp(int increment);

        void applyBrakes(int decrement);
    }
    ```